A semantic search system integrates with an AI platform to provide advanced search 
capabilities by leveraging automatically generated ontologies and knowledge graphs.  
The system employs natural language processing, machine learning, and large language 
models to create, update, and align ontologies from diverse data sources.  
It supports contextaware query interpretation, personalized results, and complex reasoning 
by incorporating user context, feedback, and domain knowledge. The system optimizes search 
performance and efficiency through indexing techniques, distributed computing, and 
continuous learning. With a modular architecture and scalable infrastructure, the semantic 
search system enables users to retrieve relevant, meaningful, and context-specific information 
from vast amounts of structured and unstructured data.  
The integration of the semantic search system with the AI platform's components, such as 
knowledge graphs and model blending, enhances the platform's overall reasoning, decision
making, and problemsolving capabilities, empowering users with intelligent and intuitive 
search experiences across various domains and applications. 
Related U.S. Application Data 
said application No. 15/847,443 is a continuation-inpart of application No. 15/489,716, filed 
on Apr. 17, 2017, now abandoned, which is a continuation-in-part of application No. 
15/409,510, filed on Jan. 18, 2017, now abandoned, which is a continuation-in-part of 
application No. 15/379,899, filed on Dec. 15, 2016, now abandoned, which is a continuation
in-part of application No. 15/376,657, filed on Dec. 13, 2016, now Pat. No. 10,402,906, which 
is a continuation-inpart of application No. 15/237,625, filed on Aug. 15, 2016, now Pat. No. 
10,248,910, which is a continuation-in-part of application No. 15/206,195, filed on Jul. 8, 2016, 
now abandoned, which is a continuationin-part of application No. 15/186,453, filed on Jun. 
18, 2016, now abandoned, which is a continuationin-part of application No. 15/166,158, filed 
on May 26, 2016, now abandoned, which is a continuationin-part of application No. 
15/141,752, filed on Apr. 28, 2016, now Pat. No. 10,860,962. (60) Provisional application No. 
63/551,328, filed on Feb.8, 2024, provisional application No. 62/568,291, filed on Oct. 4, 2017, 
provisional application No. 62/568, 298, filed on Oct. 4, 2017. 
Field of the Art 
[0026] The present invention is in the field of large-scale distributed computing, and more 
particularly to programmatically or declaratively constructed distributed graphbased 
computing platforms for artificial intelligence based search, knowledge curation, decision
making, and automation systems including those employing simulations, machine learning 
models, and artificial intelligence (AI) applications including large language models, generative 
AI, and associated AI-related services across or amongst heterogeneous cloud, large scale 
automation and control systems, managed data center, edge devices, and wearable/ mobile 
devices. 
Discussion of the State of the Art 
[0027] Current artificial intelligence (AI) systems, including large language models (LLMs) and 
generative AI (GenAI), have limitations in their capabilities stemming from their foundational 
architecture and lack integration of symbolic knowledge and reasoning. Connectivist systems 
can produce incredible results, if sometimes inconsistent or nonsensical, but don't actually 
understand the information they model per se. There is a need for Al architectures that 
can bridge the gap between symbolic and non-symbolic representations to enable more 
advanced, contextual reasoning based on an understanding and domain expertise for 
assurable quality and consistency, while considering critical factors like security, traceability, 
and collaborative model development. 
[0028] What is needed is a composite artificial intelligence platform that seamlessly integrates 
symbolic and non-symbolic approaches for advanced reasoning capabilities in AI systems, 
enabling them to achieve deeper understanding, contextual decision-making, and enhanced 
performance across diverse applications.  
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 
[0029] Accordingly, the inventor has conceived and reduced to practice, a contextual semantic 
search and reasoning system which integrates with an AI platform to provide advanced search 
capabilities by leveraging automatically generated ontologies and knowledge graphs and RAGs 
and knowledge graph RAGs. The system employs natural language processing, machine 
learning, and artificial intelligence models (e.g., large language models, diffusion models, 
variational autoencoders) to create, update, and align or harmonize ontologies from diverse 
data sources as well as maintain and select specialized narrowly tailored models, knowledge 
corpora, RAGs, and expert feedback for specialized queries or recommendations when 
prudent. It supports multimodal context-aware query interpretation, personalized results, and 
complex reasoning by incorporating user context, feedback, and domain knowledge. The 
system optimizes search and reasoning performance and efficiency through indexing 
techniques, distributed computing, and continuous learning which can occur in localized or 
global fashion. With a modular architecture and scalable infrastructure, the semantic search 
system goes beyond just semantic vector search and enables users to retrieve relevant, 
meaningful, and context-specific information from vast amounts of structured and 
unstructured data and knowledge corpora. When integrated with provenance aware model 
marketplace and registry functions, it also supports identification of additional modeling and 
simulation and representation tools and algorithms appropriate to subject matter of interest. 
The integration of the semantic search system with the AI platform's components, such as 
knowledge graphs, RAG, knowledge graph RAG, model blending or model and authoritative 
knowledge consensus checks, enhances the platform's overall reasoning, decision-making, 
and problem-solving capabilities, empowering users with intelligent and intuitive search 
experiences across various domains and applications with a higher degree of assurance and 
ultimate utility.   
[0030] According to a preferred embodiment, a computing system for semantic search 
employing an advanced reasoning platform, the computing system comprising: one or more 
hardware processors configured for: automatically creating and updating ontologies by 
analyzing structured and unstructured data from multiple sources using natural language 
processing and machine learning or artificial intelligence techniques; reading, creating, and 
maintaining a vector semantic index of content elements linked to core symbolic concepts and 
relationships defined in the ontologies; processing user queries and returning relevant results 
by leveraging the vector semantic indices, knowledge graphs, and contextual information; 
storing and managing knowledge corpora that integrates information from ontologies, 
semantic indices, and external sources; utilizing user context and preferences to guide 
semantic search and enable context-aware query interpretation and result personalization; 
orchestrating semantic search and reasoning workflows by integrating ontology extraction, 
indexing, search, knowledge graph, and context processing components; and optimizing 
performance and efficiency of the semantic search system based on workload characteristics 
and service-level objectives. 
[0031] According to another preferred embodiment, a computer-implemented method 
executed on an advanced reasoning platform for semantic search, the computer-implemented 
method comprising: automatically creating and updating ontologies by analyzing structured 
and unstructured data from multiple sources using natural language processing and machine 
learning or artificial intelligence techniques; reading, creating, and maintaining a vector 
semantic index of content elements linked to core symbolic concepts and relationships 
defined in the ontologies; processing user queries and returning relevant results by leveraging 
the vector semantic indices, knowledge graphs, and contextual information; storing and 
managing knowledge corpora that integrates information from ontologies, semantic indices, 
and external sources; utilizing user context and preferences to guide semantic search and 
enable contextaware query interpretation and result personalization; orchestrating semantic 
search and reasoning workflows by integrating ontology extraction, indexing, search, 
knowledge graph, and context processing components; and optimizing performance and 
efficiency of the semantic search system based on workload characteristics and service-level 
objectives. 
[0032] According to another preferred embodiment, system for semantic search employing 
an advanced reasoning platform, comprising one or more computers with executable 
instructions that, when executed, cause the system to: automatically create and update 
ontologies by analyzing structured and unstructured data from multiple sources using natural 
language processing and machine learning or artificial intelligence techniques; read, create, 
and maintain a vector semantic index of content elements linked to core symbolic concepts 
and relationships defined in the ontologies; process user queries and returning relevant 
results by leveraging the vector semantic indices, knowledge graphs, and contextual 
information; store and manage knowledge corpora that integrates information from 
ontologies, semantic indices, and external sources; utilize user context and preferences to 
guide semantic search and enable context-aware query interpretation and result 
personalization; orchestrate semantic search and reasoning workflows by integrating ontology 
extraction, indexing, search, knowledge graph, and context processing components; and 
optimize performance and efficiency of the semantic search system based on workload 
characteristics and service-level objectives. 
[0033] According to another preferred embodiment, nontransitory, computer-readable 
storage media having computer-executable instructions embodied thereon that, when 
executed by one or more processors of a computing system employing an advanced reasoning 
platform for semantic search, cause the computing system to: read, create, and maintain a 
vector semantic index of content elements linked to core symbolic concepts and relationships 
defined in the ontologies; process user queries and returning relevant results by leveraging 
the vector semantic indices, knowledge graphs, and contextual information; store and 
manage knowledge corpora that integrates information from ontologies, semantic indices, 
and external sources; utilize user context and preferences to guide semantic search and 
enable context-aware query interpretation and result personalization; orchestrate semantic 
search and reasoning workflows by integrating ontology extraction, indexing, search, 
knowledge graph, and context processing components; and optimize performance and 
efficiency of the semantic search system based on workload characteristics and service-level 
objectives. 
[0034] According to an aspect of an embodiment, the ontologies include both domain-specific 
and upper ontologies. 
[0035] According to an aspect of an embodiment, the data analyzed to read, create and 
update or evolve the ontologies includes temporal and spatial representations to aid the 
system in representing changes in language or concepts via versioned ontologies which 
collectively support more accurate and precise information representation, retrieval and 
reasoning. 
[0036] According to an aspect of an embodiment, the semantic index enables efficient 
semantic search and retrieval of information.  
[0037] According to an aspect of an embodiment, the knowledge graph supports curated 
symbolic representation of information which supports more complex reasoning and 
inference tasks. 
[0038] According to an aspect of an embodiment, the system leverages cloud and edge 
computing resources through a hierarchical and distributed architecture. 
[0039] According to an aspect of an embodiment, the orchestration of semantic search and 
reasoning workflows is performed using a directed computational graph system which 
supports declaration of transport, storage and compute tasks across cloud, intermediate, 
edge, and wearable, mobile, or Internet-of-Things devices. 
[0040] According to an aspect of an embodiment, the system continuously improves the 
relevance, accuracy, and performance of contextual semantic search results using machine 
learning and artificial intelligence techniques via ongoing model and knowledge corpora 
curation and index improvement. 
[0041] According to an aspect of an embodiment, the machine learning or artificial 
intelligence techniques include one or more of: one-shot learning, multi-shot learning, 
federated learning, reinforcement learning, adversarial  learning, online learning, and transfer 
learning. 
[0042] According to an aspect of an embodiment, the system includes a natural language 
interface for users to interact with the semantic search system using natural language queries, 
dialogues, and commands via voice, video, recording, braille, or writing. 
[0043]  According to an aspect of an embodiment, the system further comprises a multimodal 
interface configured to allow language, image, video, sound, smell, environmental 
characteristics, or other resources available to a user interface for users to interact with the 
semantic search and access information or gain recommendations or initiate actions. 